So let's continue by adding the functionality to turn our location, our latitude longitude coordinate
pair into a human readable address because I want to use that in this application as well.
So in the location helper, we can add a second static method which will actually return a future which eventually
will yield a string which I'll name get place address and
there, I expect to get my latitude and longitude and here I'll just use abbreviations.
It'll be a async function because in here, I'll now actually send a HTTP request to Google's servers
because Google has another API which doesn't give us such an on the fly URL though but which actually
gives us a URL to which we can send such a coordinate pair to get back a human readable address.
Now therefore, we'll need the HTTP package which we used earlier already,
so on pub.dev, we can search for HTTP and then go to installing to copy that entry and add
it to the pubspec.yaml file. So in there,
let's add this entry.
Now here we won't need to do a full restart because that doesn't tap into native device capabilities
and with the HTTP package installed, go back to the location helper and in there, we can now import
this,
so here we can import package/http and then http.dart as HTTP if you want to.
Now the question is, to which URL do we need to send this?
And the answer is you can go to the Google Maps page we're on before and under documentation, you'll find
the geocoding API and the geocoding API allows you to translate addresses to coordinates and coordinates
to addresses and what we want to do is a reverse geocoding request also known as an address lookup.
So click here and you'll find the URL to which you need to send your request.
You can copy that URL, go back into your code and there, configure that URL because we'll
need to inject our Google API too here of course and the coordinates for which we want to fetch this
also should be dynamic.
So here I want to insert latlng, so the coordinates we're getting here.
So with that, we get the URL prepared, now we need to send a get request there. So I'll get back a
response by awaiting for the result of HTTP get for that URL. Now that response will contain
the data we need and it will contain this in JSON data,
so in order to convert it, I'll import dart convert, we use that and the HTTP module of this course
too and now here, we can return json.decode for the response body, this gives us a map and on this map,
you'll have a results key and you can always print this here if you want to look into it or place a
breakpoint here and start this in debugging mode. So we'll have a results key in there and there, we'll
have multiple results, at least one, so we'll access the first entry Google returns us because it might
find multiple addresses but it will order them by relevance.
So the first one should be the most relevant one and then here we want to get the formatted address
field and make sure you have no typo in there because that is a field you'll have in the response data
and this should be the human readable address we want. I return it here, since we use async,
this will automatically be wrapped in a future and therefore overall here, we will return a future which
will then eventually yield that string here.
So now we have that helper method to get the place address, the question now is where do we use that?
And I'd say our great_places.dart file, the providers file is a great place to do that when we
insert a new place because there, we always will get our location, not right now but we'll soon add
this and we'll get our coordinates here, we can then generate the address and then we have all the data
we need to save here.
Now as an in-between step however, we first of all have to make sure that we get the location we're picking
in the location input, either by locating the user or by picking it on a map, that we get that location
to our add place screen here. So here in location input, in the end we're working with a location, here
we're getting a location, that locData which is a pair of latitude longitude and here in select a
map, we also have the selected location which is another object but also an object with latitude and
longitude.
So in both places, it would be nice if we could call a method that's provided by the parent widget, so
by the add place widget to then pass that data back to add place, just as we're doing it with the image.
So therefore here, I'll add a new method in the add place screen widget now which won't return anything
which I'll just name select place, _selectPlace and I expect to get a latitude and longitude
here as data, then we can take it from there.
So now let's pass a pointer at this method to our location input just as we did for the image,
so here I'll pass
select place and of course we need to accept this now in the location input.
So there in the widget, I get a function, a property of type function which I'll name onSelectPlace
or whatever you want to name it, therefore add the constructor and save the argument you're getting in
this property.
So now we can trigger onSelectPlace with the widget property here onSelectPlace and also in select
a map.
Now here I want to forward locData.latitude and locData.longitude and make sure that the
order is correct, latitude first, longitude second because that's what I set up in the add place screen, I expect
latitude first, longitude second. So that's what I've forward here in get current user location and in
select on map which is our alternative way, here I want to forward selectedLocation.latitude and
selectedLocation.longitude because that's where our data is stored in this method. So now we're
calling that and therefore as soon as a place has been picked,
we'll send this back to the add place screen and just as we're storing the picked image here, we can
now also store our picked location here.
Now we got plenty of objects we could use here which all offer us latitude longitude pairs,
now I'll go for my own one here.
So in the add place screens state,
I'll add a new place, location property,
the picked location, initially it's undefined and I need to import this from my own models folder,
place.dart,
this unlocks this place location class we defined there and now I want to set that picked location here
in select place, set this equal to a new place location where I get my latitude and set this to lat and
my longitude and set this to lng and I won't pass the address because for now we have no address here
and we don't need it.
So that's my picked location,
now we can also use this here in save place and check whether picked location is null because if it
is, then this should not be submittable, otherwise it should
and now we can forward this to add place as well,
so here, I will forward the picked location.
Now of course add place and the great_places.dart file right now doesn't expect this,
so here we have to add this to add place. Here I expect to get a place location, the picked location and
now we can add this here to our place we're creating. Now important, just adding it like this would not
really work though. It would add the location but without a human readable address and the idea is of
course that we do have a human readable address. So let's import our other helper file from the helpers
folder and that's the location_helper.dart file so that we can tap into the functionalities set up
there and then here before creating that new place, we can use the location helper class
provided by that file we just added and call get place address and forward pickedLocation.latitude
and pickedLocation.longitude to get that address. Now this actually returns us a future, so let's
add async here and therefore here, we'll actually return a future which will then yield nothing, async
and now we can await this and once this is done, we'll get back the address because get place address
returns a future which will eventually yield a string and that string will be the human readable address,
so that's the address we store here and now we can create our updated location if you will which is
a new place location, where the latitude is of course the latitude from the picked location and the same
for the longitude, there we use the picked location longitude but now we also set the address and
we set this to the address we just fetched.
So address here of the right side of the colon is this address and now it's this updated location here
which should be stored in the new place we're creating. Now we're not entirely there, we also need to
update our database now because now we've got more to store than just title, image and ID. So let's
move to the db helper where we create that database and make sure we actually create a database that
also has some fields for our location data. So in there, I'll add another entry after the image, so comma
and then a new field and I'll name that loc_lat to store the latitude and there, the type is
real,
that's like double, just for SQL,
so this is a number with decimal places. Then we have loc_lng which is also of type real to store the
latitude and then the address which should be text.
So now we got these three additional fields here and now we'll just have to make sure that we actually
uninstall the app from the emulator here, so I'll quickly do that, so that we clear all the data and we can
recreate that database.
So here, I'll actually select my app here and drag that to uninstall to remove it from the emulator and
uninstall this app and therefore also all the data that was related to the app.
So now we're creating a new database with a new table with different data and in our great_places.dart
file, we can now store that data target, that data or these new fields. So we can add a loc_lat field
here in our map
and there I want to store new place location latitude, also add a
loc_lng field to store a new place location longitude and also add an address field and of course,
make sure you use the exact same names you set up there, so address and that should be new place location
address.
Now we're storing all that data in the database when we create a new place,
we're also storing it here in memory when we create a place here which we add to items. To now verify
that this works,
let's also adjust the code to fetch our data because there right now,
I set location to null and that's of course no longer correct,
instead we now do get location data from the database,
we just need to use it correctly. So here, location should actually be a new place location of course
and that's now in fetch, in set places in the great_places.dart file
and there we need to provide values for the latitude, for the longitude and so on.
So for the latitude, I'll take my item which is coming from the database and then it's loc_lat, so that
key we used for storing the latitude. For longitude, it's the item with loc_lng and for the address,
it's the item with the address key.
So now we're also fetching the data from the database and then adding it to the place which we thereafter
basically store in our list of items when we then notifyListeners
and with that, we got logic for fetching and for storing data.
Now let's also output at least the address here in the place lists screen by going to our ListTile
which we're building here and below the title, we can add a subtitle which should also be a text widget
where we use great places items i and then location.address to output the address here as a subtitle.
Now with all of that,
do a full restart and make sure you uninstall the app as explained earlier
and let's now see whether that works and whether we're able to now create a new place with all the data, with
an image, with a location that is then also stored in the database.
So here's the app running, all the data is lost because I uninstalled it and reinstalled it
now. Let's go to the add place screen and let's add a little test place here.
Now let's take a picture here,
like this, select it,
here it is
and now maybe select a place on map,
maybe here, doesn't really matter,
confirm this.
Now I see one thing is missing,
we're not showing a preview,
so let's for now go with the current location.
It should have worked without that too
but I want to fix the location thing of course. So for current location, it's working and now add this
place. Now it's showing up there, we can see the address there which is looking good,
I also don't get any errors here, so that should be working
and now if I do a full refresh, let's see if that data is actually fetched successfully.
So let's wait for this to restart here, here's the spinner, here's our data, so that is working. Now let's
fix that preview when we pick a place through the map here, when we select the place on map and thereafter
that's also make sure we can go to the detail screen of course. So we see no preview if you go to location
input, here we select on map and of course the problem is I do pass that data to the add place screen
but here on get current user location, I do call set state and update my preview imageUrl, I'm not
doing that down there in select on map and of course I want to do that here as well. So let's actually
create a helper method here which doesn't return anything and which we can name show preview and there,
I expect to get my latitude and longitude and I'm just doing this to avoid code duplication, cut that
code here where we get our preview image and then call set state. Now use lat and lng in here and
now here in get current user location, we can simply call show preview and forward
locData.latitude and locData.longitude and do the same down there now. When we picked a location, then
I want to call show preview selectedLocation.latitude, selectedLocation.longitude.
Now one important side note, here when you're getting the current user location, you might also want to
use try catch around that in case this fails because of course, it could fail for example if the user
doesn't grant you permissions to get that location.
So in that case here, you might have a plan B or simply not do anything and just return, you just want
to make sure that you're also prepared for cases where this fails and where you're not successful in
getting your data here, that's just a little side note but the main thing is that we should now also get
the preview imageUrl when we're selecting this on a map.
So let's try this,
let's open the map,
pick a place here,
maybe here, confirm this and this is now looking better, here's our place.
Now I can't send it like this, I also need to add a picture, so let's add a picture here like
this
and add a text, another place and then click add place
and now this is getting added and we see it show up here and that's all looking good.
Next step is to make that detail page work.